Hello everyone and welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco and my name is Catherine
and today we're going to be visiting one of my favorite places I must say.
Really serious. You're a big meat eater.
I am. I have to have meat every day so that's why I usually go to the butcher.
Alright so vegetarians be warned today's dialogue is all about eating meat and where to go
to get meat. So as Marco said that place is called the butcher's.
So we're going to be visiting the butcher and we're going to learn all the different types of meat
you can find there. Great so we don't have anything to preview but before we get started just
like to mention that you're going to hear a lot of different kinds of words and we're back in a
minute to talk about what they mean.
I'd like half pound of ground beef please. Good choice. Our ground beef is extra lean if you know
what I mean. Could I also have half a dozen pork chops and two pounds of boneless chicken breast?
No, no, no chicken breasts at the moment but we have some nice chicken thighs.
No, that won't do. I'll take this smoked ham you have here.
Okay. Is there anything else? Is this salami and bologna you have here?
Yes. It's very fine meat. Made it myself. Sounds good. Okay that's it.
Wait. We have tea bowl, ribeye, and sirloin sticks. They are very fresh.
Just came from the slaughterhouse. No, that's okay really. I think that's all for today.
Okay that'll be $34.50. All right we're back so this butcher was kind of creepy in the
beginning. Very creepy in the beginning. I think that's usually the conception that you have
butchers because they always have a knife and they're always covered in blood but it's not human blood.
Right like the movies, we need Todd. Yeah like we need Todd. But we actually took a look at a lot
of different types of meat that the woman was ordering. So why don't we take a look at these now in
language takeaway? Language takeaway. Okay so the first is a classic cut. This is something that
we had at my house about once a week growing up it's called a pork chop pork chop. So a pork chop
comes from the animal, the pork or pig. Yeah we actually don't say pork to mean the animal.
Pork just means the kind of meat that comes from a pig. So big difference there when we're talking
about food we say pork. Wow and what about a pork chop so what exactly is that? Chop is usually
just on the bone and oftentimes it's fried or baked I guess but it's just a piece of pork on
the bone and a chop you just imagine a knife chopping something. All right so a pork chop very good
and after pork chops we were ordering some ground beef. All right so ground beef is another
important one ground beef is beef that's been chopped up and pushed through a machine that kind of
pushes it out in very very small bits. Okay there's no bone. So ground comes from the verb to grind
so to grind up meat to make it very very small pieces. All right so if you want to make a spaghetti
bowl of niese the kind of beef you use is ground beef or even hamburgers. What are you exactly?
So ground beef you ground up beef. What are other things would you grind?
Oh you could grind your teeth? You can grind. Some people do that when they're sleeping and they grind
their teeth. You can grind pepper grinders you know pepper sometimes come in balls you have to
grind them to make them smaller and broken down. Very good so that's ground beef and from the
verb to grind. Now we are buying some boneless chicken breasts. All right so boneless as you have
guests means without bones and chicken breasts are usually just a really nice juicy kind of tender
cut of meat from the chicken from the kind of underside of the chicken where obviously yeah they
have it it's not a wing it's not a leg it's just a chicken breast. All right so boneless chicken
but now usually it is boneless right when you buy it at the supermarket. Yeah yeah. Next up we've got
some classic deli counter favorites these are our cold cuts. All right so cold cuts now this
means that they are cold. Oh well yeah they're cold but I think cold cuts the most important
thing to remember here is that they're mostly like kinds of salami or cured meats so these are
salt cured or their drive meats and you usually have them on sandwiches so like a salami sandwich.
So like cured meat you mean that meat has it hasn't been cooked. Oh no it's not been cooked but it's
treated in a way that allows it to last for a very long time. All right so they look like
long long tubes of meat or they look very dry. So they look very dry like a jerky for example.
All right so cured meat now for example we have salami and baloney.
Baloney. Now it's interesting because baloney is actually spelled BOLOG and A so you
say balona balona or something like that. Well I think comes in the Italian balonia. All right but
it's definitely a change that happened in the English language when it came over from Italy but baloney
is a kind of meat that's got it's got a very funny looking name. Yeah so you're more sophisticated than
I am that's why you know this dude. I just speak Italian. All right so you have salami baloney and
pastrami. Pastrami what about ham is that considered a cold cut? You can have ham in the
cold cut section because ham sometimes comes in tubes you slice but ham is also just a normal
kind of pork pork but ham is cured you know like a smoked ham. Exactly we're smoked turkey
one of my favorites. Very good and well now moving on from the cold cuts we're going to concentrate
on steaks. Ooh steak so there are a thousand kinds of steaks in this world and every city seems
to have its own kinds but here we're only looking at three the first of which is the teabone.
All right the teabone steak I think is one of the most popular ones definitely. It's a steak
it's pretty big right? Yeah well yeah I can't be and it has a bone inside that looks like a teabone.
All right so you're saying Marco that the teabone is named after the shape and the look of this
steak. Yeah teabone steak. All right and as well as our next one is also a rib eye. Okay so the rib eye
I think actually has a piece of the rib in it so the rib is the bone and there's a circle which is kind
of a it's the piece of meat is sliced off the rib and the circle is actually part of that rib so
there's a little bit of bone in it but it's not as bone as the teabone. Right so it does have one
small bone that kind of looks like a knife because you can see through it and our next steak has
no bone and is the most tender and the best steak you can have sirloin steak. So I think the
sirloin is definitely the most expensive if you're in a restaurant definitely the most tender I
think of all those delicious and usually you can have like a big sirloin steak like a half a kilo
like a 400 grams sirloin steak at a friend of it a full kilo really sirloin steak for is it a competition
or no there's a kind of steak called the best steak. I love your antenna in Italy it's the
the Florentine beef steak and it is it can be about a kilo of meat wow yeah I bet you can't even
move after that. No you know you fall asleep with your head and your soup on the table. All right so
that's all the meat related words that we have for you today so why don't we move on now to
Florentine builder where we're going to take a look at some of the phrases in this dialogue.
Florentine builder we're going to look at the phrases if you know what I mean.
If you know what I mean. Now I love this phrase if you know what I mean. I do know what you mean.
Well it's I like it too. So you can use it for sarcasm yeah right or you can use it to kind of
insinuate something right exactly yeah so you're what you're saying you're saying there's a double
meaning in what I want to say so there's two things I could say and I'm not going to say it outright but
you know this thing that we can't really say. So for example we can say she likes to go out
if you know what I mean. All right so you're insinuating that not only does she like to go out but
maybe maybe she goes out a lot a lot or maybe she gets drunk or something like that. Yeah.
So it's kind of like a double meaning but you're trying to be subtle. Yeah but it's not so
subtle because you're actually saying like this is that what I mean or um she's eating for
too if you know what I mean. Oh there we go so you're insinuating that well you're not really
insinuating you're telling me that. She's pregnant. Eating for too is a common idiom and
English that means that a person a woman has a well it's going to have a baby. So here I'm saying hey
do you know this idiom? She's eating for too if you know what I mean. Yeah. I mean quaint quaint quaint quaint.
I mean quaint. So now why don't we take a look at some other examples of how we could use
if you know what I mean in different circumstances when you're trying to insinuate something.
Example one. She's eating for too now if you know what I mean. Example two.
Tim hit a home run today if you know what I mean. Example three.
Jim and Laura are going their separate ways if you know what I mean.
All right we're back so um now that that's clear why don't we move on to our next phrase.
So this one is accounting phrase and for those of you who have heard the word doesn't before it
might not be so new the phrase is half a dozen. Half a dozen. So that means half a 12. 12. So it
doesn't is 12 and it's I'm not really sure when this started being used in English but a
dozen is 12 and half a dozen is then six. Now there's another phrase or another saying that's very
common a dime a dozen. He's a dime a dozen. So that means you can get 12 of the same type of guys for
10 cents. Right so they're easy to find. They're easy to find. Yeah. The dime it doesn't. All right very
good and moving on to our last one. When they were talking they said something about the meat being
lean extra lean. Okay lean this is not mean a lean on a door. Right. This is not like resting
on something. This is actually a kind of um weighted described food. And so food is lean if it's
not got much fat. It's not fatty. Okay so if it's lean it doesn't have much fat. Exactly so I prefer
to eat lean meats so I often eat um birds and poultry so chicken I like it pretty lean and if it's
got fat on it I'll cut the fat off. Okay like the skin the skin is fat right? Yeah. All right so you
can have lean beef. It doesn't have much fat around it. Yeah and in America actually on the
the packages at the supermarket it often says the percentage of meat that you have so it's 95% lean
or 98% lean. So that means you have 3% fat in there. Exactly. Exactly. My math skills are amazing.
All right so um now that we've finished with all of these words on fluency builder let's take a look
at a dialogue for the last time. I'd like half pound of ground beef please. Good choice.
Our ground beef is extra lean if you know what I mean. Could I also have half a dozen pork chops
and two pounds of bonus chicken breast? No no no chicken breasts at the moment but we have some
nice chicken thighs. No that won't do. I'll take this smoked ham you have here. Okay is there anything else?
Is this salami and bologna you have here? Yes it's very fine need. Made it myself.
Sounds good. Okay that's it. Wait we have tea room. Remi and sirloin sticks. They are very fresh.
Just came from the slaughterhouse. Hmm no that's okay really. I think that's all for today.
Okay that'll be $34.50.
All right we're back so Catherine are you a big beef or meat eater? Definitely am it helps that
my partner and crime is from Kansas City and they have the best among the best steaks in our
entire country in Kansas City. Wow I actually miss um there was a back in California we had the
$6 burger from Carl's Jr it was just basically beef bacon cheese it was just like this huge
burger with full of meat and obviously a lot of calories. Okay but it was delicious I'm
an egg woulder we are very used to having some meat product every day with our food. Yeah well
it's the same in the Midwest actually from where we're from um the it's the same in the Midwest
because people in the Midwest generally think that if you're not eating meat then you know what are you eating
bread. Right corn so uh so meat is considered a healthy part of the day and you definitely eat it with your
meals. Yeah and I'm sure our vegetarian listeners might not appreciate this but you know it's just
kind of different diet some people eat for example rice every day. So we're in other countries you
wouldn't really have rice every day or for example when I was in Chile had a lot of potatoes. Really.
A lot of potato. Have you ever had an Argentine steak I hear they had the best beef in the world?
They are not only delicious but they are very inexpensive and it's amazing. You can have a
like a complete steak buffet for like I don't know like it can't even remember but it was just
I sat there for three hours and couldn't move and kept eating. Yeah was it is it true you can eat
it with a spoon. It's so soft. Some of the meat is very very tender and not if it's grilled you can't
really do that but in other preparations it's almost like that. It's a nice butter sauce.
herbs. All right so you've made me hungry. I think we're going to take off and have some
a burgers. All right so if you have any questions any comments please come to our website at
EnglishPod.com and we're there to answer any doubts. And we'd love to know what your favorite foods
are meat or otherwise so post something on our website. Hope to see you there soon. Bye bye.